	THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE
　July 4, 1776
　In Congress, July 4, 1776,
　
	THE UNANIMOUS DECLARATION OF THE THIRTEEN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

　When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessaryfor one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them withanother, and to assume among the Powers of the earth, the separate and equalstation to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decentrespect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causeswhich impel them to the separation.

　We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all menare created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certainunalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.

　That to secure these rights, Governments are institutedamong Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.

　That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructiveof these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and toinstitute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles andorganizing its powers in such form, as to the m shall seem most likely toeffect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate thatGovernments long established should not be changed for light and transientcauses; and accordingly all experience hath shown, that mankind are moredisposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves byabolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train ofabuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object, evinces a designto reduce them under absolute Des potism, it is their right, it is their duty,to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security.

　Such has been the patient sufferance of these Colonies;and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their formerSystems of Government. The history of the present King of Great Britain is ahistory of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object theestablishment of an absolute Tyranny over these States. To prove this, letFacts be submitted to a candid world.

　He has refused his Assent to Laws, the most wholesomeand necessary for the public good.

　He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediateand pressing importance, unless suspended in their operation till his Assentshould be obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attendto them.

　He has refused to pass other Laws for the accommodationof large districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right ofRepresentation in the Legislature, a right inestimable to them and formidableto tyrants only.

　He has called together legislative bodies at placesunusual, uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their publicRecords, for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with hismeasures.

　He has dissolved Representative Houses repeatedly, foropposing with manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.

　He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions,to cause others to be elected; whereby the Legislative powers, incapable ofAnnihilation, have returned to the People at large for their exercise; theState remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers of invasion fromwithout, and convulsions within.

　He has endeavoured to prevent the population of theseStates; for that purpose obstructing the Laws of Naturalization of Foreigners;refusing to pass others to encourage their migrations hither, and raising theconditions of new Appropriations of Lands .

　He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, byrefusing his Assent to Laws for establishing Judiciary powers.

　He has made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for thetenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.

　He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and senthither swarms of Officers to harass our People, and eat out their substance.dedecms.com

　He has kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armieswithout the Consent of our legislatures.

　He has affected to render the Military independent ofand superior to the Civil power.

　He has combined with others to subject us to ajurisdiction foreign to our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws;giving his Assent to their Acts of pretended Legislation:

　For quartering large bodies of armed troops among us:

　For protecting them, by a mock Trial, from Punishmentfor any Murders which they should commit on the Inhabitants of these States:

　For cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world:

　For imposing Taxes on us without our Consent:

　For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of Trialby Jury:

　For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried forpretended offences:

　For abolishing the free System of English Laws in aneighbouring Province, establishing therein an Arbitrary government, andenlarging its Boundaries so as to render it at once an example and fitinstrument for introducing the same absolute rule into these Colonies:
 

　For taking away our Charters, abolishing our mostvaluable Laws, and altering fundamentally the Forms of our Governments:

　For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaringthemselves invested with power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.

　He has abdicated Government here, by declaring us out ofhis Protection and waging War against us.

　He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt ourtowns, and destroyed the Lives of our people.

　He is at this time transporting large armies of foreignmercenaries to compleat the works of death, desolation and tyranny, alreadybegun with circumstances of Cruelty & perfidy scarcely paralleled in themost barbarous ages, and totally unworthy the H ead of a civilized nation.

　He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive onthe high Seas to bear Arms against their Country, to become the executioners oftheir friends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.

　He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, andhas endeavoured to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the mercilessIndian Savages, whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destructionof all ages, sexes and conditions.

　In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitionedfor Redress in the most humble terms: Our repeated Petitions have been answeredonly by repeated injury. A Prince, whose character is thus marked by every actwhich may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.

　Nor have We been wanting in attention to our Britishbrethren. We have warned them from time to time of attempts by theirlegislature to extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have remindedthem of the circumstances of our emigration and sett lement here. We haveappealed to their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them bythe ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, which wouldinevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence. They too have beendeaf t o the voice of justice and of consanguinity. We must, therefore,acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our Separation, and hold them, aswe hold the rest of mankind, Enemies in War, in Peace Friends.

　We, therefore, the Representatives of the united Statesof America, in General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge ofthe world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and byAuthority of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare,That these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and IndependentStates; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown, andthat all political connection between them and the State of Great Bri tain, isand ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and Independent States,they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establishCommerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may ofright do. An d for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on theProtection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives,our Fortunes and our sacred Honor.